chore: add blog post 2019-11-storybook-for-web-components-on-steroids (#1)
open-wc/blog-posts: 2019-11-storybook-for-web-components-on-steroids/README.md

And that's what is happening it ships the source as is.

However we are using private class fields an unsupported feature by for example Firefox.
What happens if we open it there?

it fails 😭

> SyntaxError: private fields are not currently supported

ok, it's our fault as we are using a stage 3 feature and are not doing any compilation now.

so let's do `es-dev-server --babel` which now uses the same `.babelrc` as webpack.

```js
function _classPrivateFieldGet(receiver, privateMap) {
  var descriptor = privateMap.get(receiver);
  if (!descriptor) {
    throw new TypeError('attempted to get private field on non-instance');
  }
  if (descriptor.get) {
    return descriptor.get.call(receiver);
  }
  return descriptor.value;
}

export class MyClass {
  constructor() {
    _privateField.set(this, {
      writable: true,
      value: 'My Class with a private field',
    });
  }

  publicMethod() {
    document.body.innerHTML = _classPrivateFieldGet(this, _privateField);
    debugger;
  }
}

var _privateField = new WeakMap();
```

So now it work 💪
It only compiles the private fields and not everything 👍

> However if you now go back to chrome you will see that it is now compiled there as well...

Author: @LarsDenBakker that was a little surprising to me... is it possible to do more magic to not compile on chrome if not needed and compile on Firefox if needed? 😬

Reviewer: This is with a custom babel config? Yeah we dont know whats inside it and what rules to apply. The auto compile detection only works for stage 4 things

---
title: Storybook for web components on steroids
published: false
description: Writing demos...
tags: javascript, webcomponents, storybook, demos
---

Building a web application is quite a big and challenging task.
As with many big tasks, it makes sense to break them into smaller pieces.
For applications, this usually means splitting your application into multiple separate components.

> Once you start doing that you will notice that you will have a lot of individual pieces in your hand and that it can be tough to keep an overview of all these moving parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you start doing that you will notice that you have a lot of individual pieces in your hands, and that it can be tough to keep an overview of all these moving parts.
```

To solve this we have been recommending [storybook](http://storybook.org) since quite some time.

> The support for web components has always been good (via `@storybook/polymer`) and have gotten even better with the recently added `@storybook/web-components`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The support for web components has always been good (via `@storybook/polymer`), and it got even better with the recently added `@storybook/web-components`.
```

> For a demo and more details look in the [vue-demo-system](./vue-demo-system) folder
> You can start it via `npm i && npm run serve`

Everything works, everyone is happy - life is good.

Fast forward 12 months and we got a new CIO. A new wind is blowing and with it a prosperous opportunity to work on a second app.
The breeze however demands that this time it is written in Angular. No, problem - we are professionals and off we go working on the new app.
Pretty early we see a similar pattern as before - components everywhere and we need a way to work and demo them individually.
Ah we think that's easy we already have a system for that 😬
We give our best - but the angular components just don't wanna work well together with the vue demo app 😭.

What can we do? Do we really need to recreate the demo system for Angular now?

It seems our issue is that having the demo UI and the component demo on the same page has the unwanted side effect that we can only use the UI system within our demos.
Not very universal that is 😅
Could we split the UI and the demo?

How about using iframes and only communicate via postMessage?
Would that mean each windows can do what they want? 🤞

> Let's make a simple POC (Prove of Concept) with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's make a simple POC (proof of concept) with
```

  }
}
```

We deliberately put a debugger breakpoint in there to see the actual code the browser is executing.

Let's see how webpack with a few babel plugins handles it. ([see full config](./EsDevServer-vs-WebpackDevServer/webpack.config.js))

```js
__webpack_require__.r(__webpack_exports__);
/* harmony export (binding) */ __webpack_require__.d(__webpack_exports__, "MyClass", function() { return MyClass; });
function _classCallCheck(instance, Constructor) { if (!(instance instanceof Constructor)) { throw new TypeError("Cannot call a class as a function"); } }
function _defineProperties(target, props) {
// ... more helper functions

var MyClass =
/*#__PURE__*/
function () {
  function MyClass() {
    _classCallCheck(this, MyClass);

    _privateField.set(this, {
      writable: true,
      value: 'My Class with a private field'
    });
  }

  _createClass(MyClass, [{
    key: "publicMethod",
    value: function publicMethod() {
      document.body.innerHTML = _classPrivateFieldGet(this, _privateField);
      debugger;
    }
  }]);

  return MyClass;
}();

var _privateField = new WeakMap();
```

Wow that is quite some code 🙈 and it does not really look like the code written 😱

> what happens? in a typical webpack & babel setup your code gets compiled down to es5 in order to be able to run the code also on older browser like IE11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What happened? in a typical webpack & babel setup your code gets compiled down to es5 in order to be able to run the code also on older browser like IE11.
```

However, you may ask how often do I actually run my app in an older browser?

A typical developer should probably develop ~90% on a modern browser and ~10% on older browsers to make sure everything still works in order.
At least we hope you have such a nice workflow 🤗

So the question is why compile, ship, debug and work with this "strange" code 100% of the time if it's only needed for 10%?
Could we do better?

Let's see how `es-dev-server` handles it by opening the same file on chrome.

```js
export class MyClass {
  #privateField = 'My Class with a private field';

  publicMethod() {
    document.body.innerHTML = this.#privateField;
    debugger;
  }
}
```

> It looks exactly as the original code - because it is. The code as is was fully capable to run in chrome without any adjustments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It looks exactly as the original code - because it is. The code as is was fully capable of running in chrome without any adjustments.
```

What happens if we open it there?

it fails 😭

> SyntaxError: private fields are not currently supported

ok, it's our fault as we are using a stage 3 feature and are not doing any compilation now.

Let's try it with `es-dev-server --babel` which in turn will use the same `.babelrc` as webpack.

The following code will be generated.

```js
function _classPrivateFieldGet(receiver, privateMap) {
  var descriptor = privateMap.get(receiver);
  if (!descriptor) {
    throw new TypeError('attempted to get private field on non-instance');
  }
  if (descriptor.get) {
    return descriptor.get.call(receiver);
  }
  return descriptor.value;
}

export class MyClass {
  constructor() {
    _privateField.set(this, {
      writable: true,
      value: 'My Class with a private field',
    });
  }

  publicMethod() {
    document.body.innerHTML = _classPrivateFieldGet(this, _privateField);
    debugger;
  }
}

var _privateField = new WeakMap();
```

And it works 💪
It only compiles the private fields and not everything 👌

However, if you now go back to chrome you will see that it is now compiled there as well...

> To summarize in order to be able to work and debug code in all the browser we want to support we basically have 2 options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To summarize in order to be able to work with and debug code in all the browser we want to support we basically have 2 options.
```

1. Compile down to the lowest denominator
2. Serve code base on browser capabilities

And as always please don't go crazy with new features.
Use what is currently stable and available on your development browser.

Note: You can even open it in IE11 and it will look like a lot more code but it will still work 💪

> The code here shows only the most relevant information
> For a demo and more details look in the [EsDevServer-vs-WebpackDevServer](./EsDevServer-vs-WebpackDevServer) folder
> You can start it via `npm run start`, `npm run start:babel` and `npm run webpack`

### Sourcemaps

Luckily in most cases, even when working with compiled code you will see the source code.
How is that possible? It's all thanks to [Sourcemaps](https://blog.teamtreehouse.com/introduction-source-maps).
They are a way to map the original code to the compiled code and browser are smart enough to link them together and only show you what you are interested in.
As long as the option "Enable JavaScript source maps" is checked in your dev tools.

It is really awesome that it justs works. It is however yet another moving part that may break or you need to know about it at least.

## Opportunity

> So looking at compilation and shipping of modern code we a window of an opportunity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So looking at compilation and shipping of modern code we see a window of opportunity.
```

We want to have the features of storybook but we also want to have the ease of use of not relying on webpack.

In short, the idea is to marry storybook ui with es-dev-server.

Let's get started 💪

Here is the master plan

> 1. prebuilt storybook ui (so we are not forced to use webpack)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Prebuild storybook ui (so we are not forced to use webpack)
```

2. Replace webpack magic like `require.context`
3. Mimic how the preview communicates with the manager
4. Use rollup to build a static version of storybook

## Storybook on steroids

> ### Prebuilt storybook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prebuild storybook
```

```

##### Extra mdx support

With the next version of storybook 5.3 docs mode will become the primary mode of writing documentation with demos on the same page.

For that, we added a koa middleware which converts mdx to CSF whenever a `.mdx` file gets requested.

#### Use rollup to build a static storybook

In most cases, you will also want to publish your storybook someone on a static server.
For that, we pre-setup a rollup configuration and which does all of the above and outputs 2 versions.

1. for modern browsers who support es modules and
2. for all other browsers we ship an es5 version with all polyfills

For more details on how the different versions are shipped from a static server please see the [open-wc rollup recommendation](https://open-wc.org/building/building-rollup.html#configuration).

> The code here shows only the most relevant information
> For a full demo see the [storybookOnSteroids](./storybookOnSteroids) folder
> You can start it via `npm i && npm run storybook`
> For the actual source code see [@open-wc/demoing-storybook](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/demoing-storybook)

### Verdict

We did it 💪

A fully-featured demo system that

> - is build less on modern browsers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- is buildless on modern browsers
```

- starts up lightning-fast

> - has a prebuilt UI (in es5)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- has a prebuilt UI
```

- serves preview code based on browser capabilities
- uses `es-dev-server` under the hood so you can use all it's features

And above all, it's just wonderful to see how a completely separate server can power storybook.
The storybook setup is really worth it 👍

PS: it's not all roses and rainbows but with that step, we now know that it is possible - further improvements like a smaller preview bundle or separate packages for the mdx transformation will happen at some point 🤗

#### Future

We hope that this can be a starting point so storybook can directly support other framework servers as well 👍

> Even none JavaScript servers could be possible - Ruby, PHP are you ready? 🤗

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even non JavaScript servers could be possible - Ruby, PHP are you ready? 🤗
```

  if (!descriptor) {
    throw new TypeError('attempted to get private field on non-instance');
  }
  if (descriptor.get) {
    return descriptor.get.call(receiver);
  }
  return descriptor.value;
}

export class MyClass {
  constructor() {
    _privateField.set(this, {
      writable: true,
      value: 'My Class with a private field',
    });
  }

  publicMethod() {
    document.body.innerHTML = _classPrivateFieldGet(this, _privateField);
    debugger;
  }
}

var _privateField = new WeakMap();
```

And it works 💪
It only compiles the private fields and not everything 👌

However, if you now go back to chrome you will see that it is now compiled there as well.
The reason for it is that once you start going through babel it just does it's thing based on `@babel/preset-env` and babel is always on the conservative side.
Therefore if you are concerned about speed it is best to only rely on stage 4 features and to not use babel at all.
If you really need you can have 2 start commands

```json
"start": "es-dev-server --open",
"start:babel": "es-dev-server --babel --open",
```

However, the real magic happens when you open an older browser like IE11.

> As then it will compile it down to [systemjs](https://github.com/systemjs/systemjs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As then it will compile it down to [systemjs](https://github.com/systemjs/systemjs), a polyfill for es modules.
```

It will look something like this

```js
System.register([], function(_export, _context)) {
  "use strict";

  var MyClass, _privateField;

  function _classCallback(instance, Constructor) {
// ...
```

> But it will still work 💪

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will behave exactly like real es modules, so that your code will work just fine on browsers which don't support them 💪
```
